.TH SNIPROXY-CFG 8 "31 Oct 2025" "SNIProxy manual" "sniproxy"

.SH NAME

sniproxy-cfg \- validate and inspect sniproxy configuration files

.SH SYNOPSIS

Bsniproxy-cfgR [ -BcR IconfigR ] [ -BpR ] [ -BhR ]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Bsniproxy-cfgR loads a SNIProxy configuration file, validates every listener,
table, and backend definition, and optionally prints the normalized
configuration to standard output. It uses the same parser and validators as
BsniproxyR, making it safe to run as part of automated deployment or CI
pipelines before reloading a live proxy instance. It enforces the same
permission guard as \fBsniproxy\fR and refuses to process configuration files
that are readable or executable by group or other users.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
-c IconfigR
Path to the configuration file to validate. The default is
/etc/sniproxy.conf.

.TP
-p
Print the normalized configuration to standard output after validation. The
output matches what sniproxy would use internally and is helpful for sanity
checks or debugging.

.TP
-h
Display a short help message and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES

Validate the default configuration:

.nf
sniproxy-cfg
.fi

Validate a custom configuration and dump the normalized form:

.nf
sniproxy-cfg -c /opt/sniproxy/sniproxy.conf -p
.fi

.SH EXIT STATUS

.TP
0
The configuration was parsed successfully and passed all validation checks.
.TP
>0
An error occurred while parsing or validating the configuration, or the tool
was invoked with invalid arguments.

.SH SEE ALSO

sniproxy(8), sniproxy.conf(5)
